---
eea.cache
---

#  EEA Cache

[![http://ci.eionet.europa.eu/job/eea.cache-
www/badge/icon](https://camo.githubusercontent.com/854565af744abb67a8b9d175c00a4ccf4e544517/687474703a2f2f63692e65696f6e65742e6575726f70612e65752f6a6f622f6565612e63616368652d7777772f62616467652f69636f6e)](http://ci.eionet.europa.eu/job/eea
.cache-www/lastBuild) [![http://ci.eionet.europa.eu/job/eea.cache-
plone4/badge/icon](https://camo.githubusercontent.com/433b97564f53f1c19b78efecacc1c5548a3e02a6/687474703a2f2f63692e65696f6e65742e6575726f70612e65752f6a6f622f6565612e63616368652d706c6f6e65342f62616467652f69636f6e)](http://ci.eionet.europa.eu/job/eea
.cache-plone4/lastBuild)

##  Introduction

This package combines the features from lovely.memcached and
plone.memoize.ram. It provides a decorator and utility for Memcaches at EEA.
The decorator allows you set dependencies known by eea.cache

Note

This add-on doesn't do anything by itself. It needs to be integrated by a
developer within your own products. For reference you can check the
[eea.app.visualization](http://eea.github.com/docs/eea.app.visualization)
package.

##  Contents

Contents

  * Introduction
  * Contents
  * Main features
  * Install
  * Dependencies
  * Source code
  * Cache decorator
  * Cache lifetime
    * Cache lifetime override per key
  * Invalidate cache
    * memcache.invalidate
    * varnish.invalidate
    * cache.invalidate
    * cache.settings
  * Copyright and license
  * Funding and project management

##  Main features

  1. Extends and overrides plone.memoize cache adapters to work with memcache
  2. Provides an extended @cache decorator that supports:
    * cache lifetime override per method
    * dependencies string in order to bulk invalidate cache
    * auto-invalidation of cache when ObjectModifiedEvent is triggered
  3. Possibility to manually invalidate cache via URL.

##  Install

  * Add eea.cache to your eggs and zcml section in your buildout and re-run buildout:
    
        eggs =
      ...
      eea.cache
    
    zcml =
      ...
      eea.cache
      eea.cache-overrides
    

  * You can download a sample buildout from <https://github.com/eea/eea.cache/tree/master/buildouts/plone4>

  * Install eea.cache within Site Setup &gt; Add-ons

  * Start memcache:
    
        $ bin/memcached start
    

##  Dependencies

  * [python-memcached](http://pypi.python.org/pypi/python-memcached)
  * [pylibmc](http://pypi.python.org/pypi/pylibmc) (optional, for better performance)
  * [plone.memoize](http://pypi.python.org/pypi/plone.memoize)
  * [plone.uuid](http://pypi.python.org/pypi/plone.uuid)

##  Source code

Latest source code (Zope 2 compatible):

    

  * [Plone Collective on Github](https://github.com/collective/eea.cache)
  * [EEA on Github](https://github.com/eea/eea.cache)

##  Cache decorator

    
    
    >>> def key(method, self):
    ...     return method.__name__
    
    >>> from eea.cache import cache
    >>> @cache(key, dependencies=["frontpage"])
    ... def myMethod(num):
    ...     return num*num
    

Lets clear any running memcache:

    
    
    >>> from eea.cache.event import InvalidateMemCacheEvent
    >>> from zope.event import notify
    >>> notify(InvalidateMemCacheEvent(raw=True, dependencies=['frontpage']))
    

Our myMethod will now be cached with the key returned from the method 'key'
and with dependency 'frontpage':

    
    
    >>> myMethod(2)
    4
    >>> myMethod(3)
    4
    
    >>> notify(InvalidateMemCacheEvent(raw=True, dependencies=['frontpage']))
    >>> myMethod(3)
    9
    

##  Cache lifetime

By default your content is cached in memcache for one hour (3600 seconds). You
can change this by adding an **int** property within: ZMI &gt;
portal_properties &gt; site_properties called **memcached_defaultLifetime**
and set it's value to **86400** (one day) for example.

###  Cache lifetime override per key

Starting with eea.cache 5.1 you can also pass a lifetime key with the duration
in seconds which will override the defaultLifetime either given from the
portal property or the default one from lovely.memcached of 3600 seconds:

    
    
    ex: in order to cache the result only for 4 minutes
    >>> @cache(key, dependencies=["frontpage"], lifetime=240)
    ... def myMethod(num):
    ...     return num*num
    

##  Invalidate cache

If you use cache decorator for BrowserView methods or directly on Zope objects
methods cache will be **automatically invalidated** when object is modified
(ObjectModifiedEvent is triggered):

    
    
    >>> from Products.Five.browser import BrowserView
    
    >>> class XXX(BrowserView):
    ...     @cache(key)
    ...     def title(self):
    ...         return self.context.title_or_id()
    

You can disable auto invalidation by providing the auto_invalidate param to
@cache decorator:

    
    
    >>> @cache(key, auto_invalidate=False)
    ... def title(self):
    ...     return self.context.title_or_id()
    

###  memcache.invalidate

In order to manually invalidate memcached cache per object this package
provides a browser view called **memcache.invalidate**. It will invalidate all
memcached methods associated with current object's UID:

    
    
    http://localhost:2020/Plone/front-page/memcache.invalidate
    

You can also manually invalidate related items and back references:

    
    
    http://localhost:2020/Plone/front-page/memcache.invalidate/relatedItems
    
    http://localhost:2020/Plone/front-page/memcache.invalidate/backRefs
    

By default this method can be called by users with these roles:

  * Editor
  * CommonEditor
  * Owner
  * Manager

###  varnish.invalidate

In order to manually invalidate memcached cache per object this package
provides a browser view called **varnish.invalidate**. It will invalidate all
memcached methods associated with current object's UID:

    
    
    http://localhost:2020/Plone/front-page/varnish.invalidate
    

You can also manually invalidate related items and back references:

    
    
    http://localhost:2020/Plone/front-page/varnish.invalidate/relatedItems
    
    http://localhost:2020/Plone/front-page/varnish.invalidate/backRefs
    

By default this method can be called by users with these roles:

  * Editor
  * CommonEditor
  * Owner
  * Manager

###  cache.invalidate

In order to manually invalidate cache (memcached and varnish) per object this
package provides a browser view called **cache.invalidate**. It will call
memcache.invalidate and varnish.invalidate:

    
    
    http://localhost:2020/Plone/front-page/cache.invalidate
    

You can also manually invalidate related items and back references:

    
    
    http://localhost:2020/Plone/front-page/cache.invalidate/relatedItems
    
    http://localhost:2020/Plone/front-page/cache.invalidate/backRefs
    

By default this method can be called by users with these roles:

  * Editor
  * CommonEditor
  * Owner
  * Manager

###  cache.settings

There is also a Cache Tab per object where you can manually select which cache
to invalidate. By default, you can invalidate memcache and varnish. You also
have the possibility to invalidate memcache and/or varnish for related items
and also fo back references.

This form can be extended with more options. For a more detailed example see
[eea.pdf](http://eea.github.io/docs/eea.pdf)

**configure.zcml**:
    
    
    <adapter
      zcml:condition="installed eea.cache"
      factory=".behavior.ExtraBehavior"
      />
    
    <adapter
      zcml:condition="installed eea.cache"
      factory=".behavior.ExtraSettings"
      name="eea.pdf.cache.extender"
      />
    

**behavior.py**:
    
    
    # Model
    class IExtraSettings(model.Schema):
        """ Extra settings
        """
        pdf = schema.Bool(
            title=_(u"PDF"),
            description=_(u"Invalidate latest generated PDF file"),
            required=False,
            default=False
        )
    
    
    # Behaviour
    class ExtraBehavior(object):
        implements(IExtraSettings)
        adapts(IPDFAware)
    
        def __init__(self, context):
            self.context = context
    
        @property
        def pdf(self):
            """ PDF
            """
            return False
    
        @pdf.setter
        def pdf(self, value):
            """ Invalidate last generated PDF?
            """
            if not value:
                return
    
            removePdfFiles()
    
    # Form
    class ExtraSettings(extensible.FormExtender):
        adapts(IPDFAware, ILayer, SettingsForm)
    
        def __init__(self, context, request, form):
            self.context = context
            self.request = request
            self.form = form
    
        def update(self):
            """ Extend form
            """
            self.add(IExtraSettings, prefix="extra")
            self.move('pdf', after='varnish', prefix='extra')
    

##  Copyright and license

The Initial Owner of the Original Code is European Environment Agency (EEA).
All Rights Reserved.

The eea.cache (the Original Code) is free software; you can redistribute it
and/or modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
(at your option) any later version.

More details under docs/License.txt

##  Funding and project management

[EEA](http://www.eea.europa.eu/) \- European Environment Agency (EU)

